So let’s pull the topology I bring some VPCS devices into that topology.
I’ve discussed this previously.
What I’ll do now is connect router 1 on F2/0
that’s the EtherSwitch module to the first port on EtherSwitch module on router 2.
Let’s show labels so we can see our interfaces.
Also zooming here so we can see better.
I’ll also connect the PC to port 2
and this PC to port 2 on the EtherSwitch module.
The reason why is I’m going to connect another cable
between these 2 routers in a moment.
But for now, let’s start up the devices
and let’s open a console connection.
Ok! So here’s router 1, I'm gonna give the router a hostname.
So host router 1 and now we can use commands such as
spanning-tree vlan 1 root primary
So I'll make router 1 acting as our switch here
the root for vlan 1 on router 2, set a hostname of router 2
spanning-tree vlan 1 root secondary.
So this allows you to configure the routers in the same way
that you would configure a switch.
Just be aware that some commands are different
so when you type sh vlan we have options such as
show vlans, show vlan-range and show-vlan switch.
And what we want to show vlan-switch.
Remember this is still a router with an EtherSwitch module in it
so router command is still valid on this router.
so sh vlans is not gonna show you what you want
sh vlan-switch is gonna show you output
similar to what you would have on a physical switch
so at the moment, you can see that this ports F2/0 up to F2/15 are in VLAN 1.